README.md, before:

# Image processing

This project is intended to offer a set of basic features on image processing. It is a tool for image processing.

## Features 🌟

- [X] Flip X
- [X] Flip Y
- [X] Rotate 
  - [X] Left
  - [X] Right
  - [X] Transpose (invert columns and rows)
- [X] Grayscale
- [X] Crop
- [-] Resize
  - [X] Nearest neighbor (low quality)
  - [ ] Bilinear interpolation
  - [ ] Bicubic interpolation
- [ ] Blur
- [ ] Sharpen
- [ ] Other...

## Dev requirements 🔎

It was developed on golang 1.20.4, but it is likely to work on golang 1.16+ for development. 

## Installing

For the build version you just need to install the [executable](https://github.com/DavidEsdrs/image-processing/releases
).

❗ Are you encountering the "iproc: command not found" error or something similar? This happens because Windows isn't updating the PATH environment variables. You need add a PATH variable with the path that you downloaded the executable. Click [here](https://helpdeskgeek.com/windows-10/add-windows-path-environment-variable/) to learn how to update them manually.

## How to use :books:

After installing the build in your machine. You can perform one or more operations (listed below) onto the images. The arguments -i (input) and -o (output) are mandatory. You can perform one or more operations.

```sh
iproc -i [input] -o [output] [...args]
```

Each argument perform a given effect:

- Flip Y:

```sh
iproc -i [input] -o [output] -fy
```

- Flip X:

```sh
iproc -i [input] -o [output] -fx
```

- Rotate (actually, it is a transpose, a rotation 270 degrees + flip in Y axis, it will be changed!!!)

```sh
iproc -i [input] -o [output] -t
```

- Resize (nearest neighbor):

```sh
iproc -i [input] -o [output] -nn [factor]
```

**Note**: The factor of resize must be > 0. Note that the algorithm applied is the `nearest neighbor`, which is known to give pixelated results

Example:

```sh
# half of the actual size
iproc -i [input] -o [output] -nn .5
```

- Crop:

```sh
iproc -i [input] -o [output] -c [xstart],[xend],[ystart],[yend]
```

Example:
```sh
iproc -i [input] -o [output] -c 0,1000,0,200
```

The above can be simplified to:
```sh
iproc -i [input] -o [output] -c 1000,200
```
Representing xend and ysend.

**node**: Default values for xstart and ystart are both 0

- Grayscale:

```sh
iproc -i [input] -o [output] -gs
```

> **note**: If you prefer use the development version, you just need to clone this repository and change `iproc` for `go run main.go`.

> **More will be added soon** 😄

## Considerations ⚠️

As the project progresses, it will get closer to being a tool and more effects will be added.

## Examples ⭐

Apply grayscale filter, flip in Y axis and resize it to half its size

input:
```sh
iproc -i ./images/almoço.png -o ./assets/almoço.png -gs -fy -nn .5
```

before:

![lunch before effects](./images/almoço.png)

after:

![lunch after effects](./assets/almoço.png)

Commit message:

docs: Add note to indicate that the tool only supports jpeg and png by now

README.md, after:

# Image processing

This project is intended to offer a set of basic features on image processing. It is a tool for image processing. 

> **Note**: At the moment, it  only supports JPEG and PNG

## Features 🌟

- [X] Flip X
- [X] Flip Y
- [X] Rotate 
  - [X] Left
  - [X] Right
  - [X] Transpose (invert columns and rows)
- [X] Grayscale
- [X] Crop
- [-] Resize
  - [X] Nearest neighbor (low quality)
  - [ ] Bilinear interpolation
  - [ ] Bicubic interpolation
- [ ] Blur
- [ ] Sharpen
- [ ] Other...

## Dev requirements 🔎

It was developed on golang 1.20.4, but it is likely to work on golang 1.16+ for development. 

## Installing

For the build version you just need to install the [executable](https://github.com/DavidEsdrs/image-processing/releases
).

❗ Are you encountering the "iproc: command not found" error or something similar? This happens because Windows isn't updating the PATH environment variables. You need add a PATH variable with the path that you downloaded the executable. Click [here](https://helpdeskgeek.com/windows-10/add-windows-path-environment-variable/) to learn how to update them manually.

## How to use :books:

After installing the build in your machine. You can perform one or more operations (listed below) onto the images. The arguments -i (input) and -o (output) are mandatory. You can perform one or more operations.

```sh
iproc -i [input] -o [output] [...args]
```

Each argument perform a given effect:

- Flip Y:

```sh
iproc -i [input] -o [output] -fy
```

- Flip X:

```sh
iproc -i [input] -o [output] -fx
```

- Rotate (actually, it is a transpose, a rotation 270 degrees + flip in Y axis, it will be changed!!!)

```sh
iproc -i [input] -o [output] -t
```

- Resize (nearest neighbor):

```sh
iproc -i [input] -o [output] -nn [factor]
```

**Note**: The factor of resize must be > 0. Note that the algorithm applied is the `nearest neighbor`, which is known to give pixelated results

Example:

```sh
# half of the actual size
iproc -i [input] -o [output] -nn .5
```

- Crop:

```sh
iproc -i [input] -o [output] -c [xstart],[xend],[ystart],[yend]
```

Example:
```sh
iproc -i [input] -o [output] -c 0,1000,0,200
```

The above can be simplified to:
```sh
iproc -i [input] -o [output] -c 1000,200
```
Representing xend and ysend.

**node**: Default values for xstart and ystart are both 0

- Grayscale:

```sh
iproc -i [input] -o [output] -gs
```

> **note**: If you prefer use the development version, you just need to clone this repository and change `iproc` for `go run main.go`.

> **More will be added soon** 😄

## Considerations ⚠️

As the project progresses, it will get closer to being a tool and more effects will be added.

## Examples ⭐

Apply grayscale filter, flip in Y axis and resize it to half its size

input:
```sh
iproc -i ./images/almoço.png -o ./assets/almoço.png -gs -fy -nn .5
```

before:

![lunch before effects](./images/almoço.png)

after:

![lunch after effects](./assets/almoço.png)
